---
title: "Solve a Problem, Turn it to a Business: A One Man Show"
date: 2015-01-04
tags: business IT
layout: post
---

Every programmer's dream: Solve a problem which sucks, turn it into a
business, make some money. Bogdan did it. Nicely...

<!-- more -->

Last June, I, my wife, my friend and business partner,
[Tolga](http://www.w8noise.com) and his wife,
[Farah](https://www.google.com/+FarahKusairiSezer) made a short trip
to Sibu, [SeaGipsy Village
Resort](http://www.siburesort.com/Index.html). The objective was to
have an offsite work sprint and rest a little bit. Despite the nice
atmosphere, there was only satellite Internet which effectively wasn't
there.

I usually maintain an offline copy of documentation of most
technologies which I often refer to. Still I felt a bit insecure and
wished that I had a software which would hold all the documentation I
might need and allow me to search what I would look for.

After I arrived back in Singapore, I decided to setup such a software,
and even implement one if there wasn't any. For your information:
There are many online and ugly looking software. But then...

I bumped into [Dash](http://kapeli.com/dash), which describes itself as:

> Dash is an API Documentation Browser and Code Snippet Manager. Dash
  stores snippets of code and instantly searches offline documentation
  sets for 150+ APIs (for a full list, see below). You can even
  generate your own docsets or request docsets to be included.

It works on Mac OSX and iOS (Sorry for GNU/Linux Users). It has more
documentation sets than I would need. But one functionality might give
you a clue about how serious Dash is: It can download the entire
Stackoverflow database and allow you to search it (My Macbook has only
128GB of disk space, so I didn't attempt it yet). Code snippets, user
contributed documentations, cheat-sheets... Beautiful interface and
user experience!

[Paul Graham](http://www.paulgraham.com) describes a valuable
technology startup idea as [a problem which
sucks](http://www.paulgraham.com/start.html). In this case,
maintaining a variety of documentation for offline use and serving it
to users for a good experience is such a
problem. [Bogdan](http://blog.kapeli.com/about), the sole developer of
Dash, managed to nail it down.

I admire Bogdan, although I have never met or chat with him. Not only
because that he delivered Dash, but also because of his transparency
for sharing [his new year's
resolution](http://blog.kapeli.com/my-year-in-review-2014) as a blog
post. In this post, he shares his business revenue and costs in
detail. He even gives the breakdown of his average daily working
hours. Cool, right?

I wish him and all of you a successful new year.
